website/docs: add architecture and persistence (#6250)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/core/architecture.md

---
title: Architecture
---

> authentik consists of a handful of compoennts, most of which are required for a functioning setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentik consists of a handful of components, most of which are required for a functioning setup.
```

```mermaid
graph LR
    user(User) --> ak_server(authentik Server)
    ak_server --> ak_server_core(authentik Server Core)

>     ak_server --> ak_outpost(Embedded outopst)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ak_server --> ak_outpost(Embedded outpost)
```

    ak_server_core --> db(PostgreSQL)
    ak_server_core --> cache(Redis)
    ak_worker(Background Worker) --> db(PostgreSQL)
    ak_worker(Background Worker) --> cache(Redis)
```

### Server

The server container consists of two sub-components, the actual server itself and the embedded outpost. Incoming requests to the server container(s) are routed by a lightweight router to either the _Core_ server or the embedded outpost. This router also handles requests for any static assets such as JavaScript and CSS files.

> ##### Core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Core
```

The core sub-component handles most of authentik's logic, such as API requests, flow executions, any kind of SSO requests, etc.

> ##### Embedded outpost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Embedded outpost
```

> Similar to [other Outposts](../outposts/index.mdx), this outposts allows using [Proxy providers](../providers/proxy/index.md) without deploying a separate outpost

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to [other outposts](../outposts/index.mdx), this outposts allows using [Proxy providers](../providers/proxy/index.md) without deploying a separate outpost.
```

> ##### Persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Persistence
```

> -   `/media` is used to store icons and such, but not required, and if not mounted, authentik will allow you to set a URL to icons in place of a file upload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The `/media`directory is used to store icons and such, but not required, and if not mounted, authentik will allow you to set a URL to icons instead of a file upload.
```

Reviewer: By "set a URL to icons" do you mean "define a URL for a clickable icon" or "define a URL to display an icon instead of uploading a file"?

Reviewer: The title of this section is Persistence, but the sentence in it is about a /media directory.... how are they related, how does the directory help with persistence (and of what?)?

Maybe turn this section into a Note? All of the other headers reflect a component shown in the diagram, but not this one about persistence.

Reviewer: Oh... I see there is a Persistence section for several of the components. Yes, I would turn these into Notes.

If you want to keep them as headings, I;d suggest for SEO reasons to retitle them to "Persistence in an outpost" and "Persistence in a background worker", etc. So that we don't end up with a bunch of heading s that all say same thing.

> ### Worker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Background Worker
```

This container executes background tasks, such as sending emails, the event notification system, and everything you can see on the _System Tasks_ page in the frontend.

> ##### Persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Persistence
```

> -   `/certs` is used for authentik to import external certs, which in most cases shouldn't be used for SAML, but rather if you use authentik without a reverse proxy, this is used for the lets encrypt integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The `/certs` directory is used for authentik to import external certs, which in most cases shouldn't be used for SAML, but rather if you use authentik without a reverse proxy, this is used for the lets encrypt integration.
```

Reviewer: What is "the lets encrypt integration" ??

> -   `/templates` is used for custom email templates, and as with the other ones fully optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The `/templates` directory is used for custom email templates, and as with the other ones fully optional.
```

### PostgreSQL

> authentik uses PostgreSQL to store all of its configuration and other data, aside from uploaded files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentik uses PostgreSQL to store all of its configuration and other data (excluding uploaded files).
```

> ##### Persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Persistence
```

> -   `/var/lib/postgresql/data` is used to store the PostgreSQL database

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   The `/var/lib/postgresql/data` directory is used to store the PostgreSQL database.
```

### Redis

> authentik uses Redis as a message-queue and a cache. Data in Redis is not required to be persistent, however if this is not the case, restarting Redis will cause the loss of all sessions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
authentik uses Redis as a message-queue and a cache. Data in Redis is not required to be persistent, however you should be aware that restarting Redis will cause the loss of all sessions.
```

> ##### Persistence

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Persistence
```

> -   `/data` is used to store the Redis data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   the `/data` directory is used to store the Redis data.
```
